Community Working Group Plan
Table of Contents 
Background (#Background)
Participation (#Participation)
Key Community Working Groups Activities (#Key Community Working Groups Activities)
Interaction with FedRAMP (#Interaction with FedRAMP)
Transparency and Communication (#Transparency and Communication)
Changes to CWG Operations (#Changes to CWG Operations)


##Background
FedRAMP Community Working Groups (CWGs) are public, informal and collaborative groups that facilitate industry-led knowledge sharing on commercial and government best practices for information security of cloud services. FedRAMP will rely on the direct engagement provided by CWGs to ensure a smooth transition towards its updated mission of setting standards and policies that enable private innovation to provide solutions to information security problems.
Every FedRAMP CWG has the following primary objectives:
Ensure FedRAMP has direct insight into community activities, goals, achievements, best practices, etc. in specific areas to inform creation of standards and policies prior to their formal development.

Ensure that FedRAMP stakeholders have equal public access to information from FedRAMP and an open forum and semi-structured opportunities to work towards shared goals in different and innovative ways.
Working Group Name
[details on scope]

##Participation
FedRAMP CWGs are open to the public and all members of the community may participate or follow along. 

The [CWG Name] CWG is especially relevant for members of the following communities:
Security & Compliance managers at cloud service providers
Etc. (be specificish)

##Key Community Working Groups Activities
FedRAMP advocates may drive discussion on specific topics of interest to FedRAMP but participants are strongly encouraged to self-organize around activities related to the CWG. 
[Identify and list specific activities to be accomplished. This includes such activities as developing specific software or methodologies and the location of any public GitHub repositories.]
  Activity One
  Details
  Activity Two
  Details
  Activity Three
  Details

##Interaction with FedRAMP
The [CWG Name] CWG will be managed by the following member of the FedRAMP PMO:
Name, GitHub Username

In addition, the following members of the FedRAMP PMO will support this community as FedRAMP advocates, sharing additional information and addressing feedback as appropriate:
Name, GitHub Username
Name, GitHub Username
Name, GitHub Username

All communication related to this community must take place in public; private messages and emails related to this community will be ignored by the Community Manager and FedRAMP advocates.
Industry professionals should be aware there are limitations on how the federal government and its representatives can engage in CWGs. FedRAMP will not use working groups to seek consensus advice, review formal draft guidance or policies in place of public comment, or direct work on behalf of the government.
FedRAMP’s Disclaimer of Liability and Endorsement applies to all activity from government representatives participating in the CWG: https://fedramp.gov/disclaimer

##Transparency and Communication
This CWG will primarily operate on GitHub in the following repository and Discussion forum:
GitHub Repo Name

Link to Discussion Forum

The community manager will host a weekly hour-long town hall for managed discussion, updates, and Q&A:
Zoom signup link
Recordings from each town hall will be publicly posted on FedRAMP’s YouTube channel as follows:
YouTube Link, #hashtag / playlist / or whatever

Every two weeks, the Community Manager will post a Summary of Activity to the CWG that includes the following:
  Recap of questions asked by FedRAMP
  Recap of major topics of discussion
  Recap of major topics from the weekly town halls
  Errata or updates as appropriate
  Expected topics of focus for the next two weeks
  
##Changes to CWG Operations
FedRAMP Community Working Groups are a new idea that will need to be continuously and incrementally improved. FedRAMP is committed to supporting CWGs throughout the development of FedRAMP 2025 and will provide clear instructions at least thirty days in advance of any significant changes to each CWG.

