Proposal Submitter: Sai Sravan Cherukuri, FedRAMP recognized 3PAO assessment team member, 03-27-2025, IRS, SSSD, PaaS Automation Lead, DevSecOps Tech Advisor
Standard for Continuous Monitoring Reporting by Cloud Service Providers (CSPs) under FedRAMP Rev 5 and Legacy Rev 4
1.Introduction
Continuous Monitoring (ConMon) is a cornerstone of FedRAMP, ensuring that authorized Cloud Service Offerings (CSOs) maintain a resilient and transparent security posture. This standard establishes a structured, automated, and risk-driven reporting framework, equipping agency security professionals with real-time security insights.
By defining specific reporting templates, compliance checklists, and an API schema for automated report ingestion, this standard elevates ConMon beyond a compliance requirement, it optimizes security visibility, automates risk assessment, and enhances proactive threat mitigation.
2.Purpose
The purpose of this standard is to ensure that CSPs with both FedRAMP Revision 5 (Rev 5) and legacy FedRAMP Revision 4 (Rev 4) authorizations provide security professionals across federal agencies with reliable, consistent, and actionable insights into the security posture of their Cloud Service Offering (CSO).
3. Scope and Applicability
This standard applies to all CSPs that maintain a FedRAMP authorization at any impact level (Low, Moderate, or High). It outlines the minimum requirements for continuous monitoring reporting to ensure transparency, risk validation, and compliance with evolving cybersecurity threats.
4. Objectives
•	Establish a uniform ConMon reporting format that aligns with FedRAMP Rev 5 controls and accommodates legacy Rev 4 systems.
•	Provide agency security professionals with timely, accurate, and meaningful risk insights into CSP environments.
•	Ensure seamless integration of ConMon data into federal risk management frameworks and Security Operations Centers (SOCs).
•	Enhance automation in reporting to reduce manual overhead and improve data accuracy.
5. Key Requirements for Continuous Monitoring Reporting
5.1 Reporting Frequency and Submission
•	Monthly POA&M Reporting: CSPs must submit a Plan of Action & Milestones (POA&M) report monthly, detailing open, closed, and mitigated vulnerabilities.
•	Quarterly Vulnerability Scanning Reports: Results from authenticated scans of operating systems, databases, and web applications must be submitted every quarter.
•	Annual Assessment Report: A full reassessment of security controls must be conducted and submitted annually to ensure compliance with the system security plan (SSP).
•	Immediate Incident Reporting: Any significant security incidents, breaches, or compromises must be reported within 60 minutes, followed by a detailed impact assessment within 24 hours.
5.2 Security Control Performance Metrics
CSPs must report on the following key metrics to demonstrate adherence to FedRAMP Rev 5 requirements:
•	Patch Management Compliance: Percentage of critical vulnerabilities patched within prescribed timelines (e.g., 15 days for critical, 30 days for high severity).
•	Endpoint Security Posture: Percentage of systems with active endpoint detection and response (EDR) tools.
•	Access Control Monitoring: Summary of privileged access changes and multi-factor authentication (MFA) compliance rates.
•	Log and Event Management: Percentage of security logs ingested into a Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) system and retention compliance with FedRAMP requirements.
5.3 Threat Intelligence and Risk Assessment
•	CSPs must provide periodic threat intelligence reports that identify emerging risks and indicators of compromise (IOCs) relevant to the cloud environment.
•	Risk scoring methodologies should be applied to prioritize vulnerabilities based on exploitability, potential impact, and asset criticality.
•	CSPs should demonstrate their ability to detect and respond to zero-day threats by integrating federal threat intelligence sources such as CISA’s Automated Indicator Sharing (AIS).
5.4 Automation and Data Exchange Standards
•	CSPs must leverage machine-readable formats (e.g., STIX/TAXII, JSON, XML) for ConMon reporting to facilitate automated ingestion by agency security tools.
•	APIs should be provided for real-time data sharing with agencies utilizing Continuous Diagnostics and Mitigation (CDM) programs.
•	Reports should align with NIST 800-53 Rev 5 and be mapped to federal risk management frameworks such as FISMA and Zero Trust Architecture (ZTA).
5.5 Compliance with Legacy FedRAMP Rev 4
For CSPs still operating under FedRAMP Rev 4, the following considerations apply:
•	CSPs must submit a migration plan to transition to Rev 5 by the deadline set by FedRAMP PMO.
•	Any security gaps between Rev 4 and Rev 5 must be documented with compensating controls.
•	ConMon reporting must follow the enhanced guidelines of Rev 5 where feasible, especially in vulnerability management and automated reporting.
6. Standardized Reporting Templates
6.1 Plan of Action & Milestones (POAM) Monthly Report
Purpose: Tracks open vulnerabilities, remediation progress, and compliance with required patching timelines.
Template Format:
POA&M ID	Vulnerability Name	Severity	Identified Date	Due Date	Mitigation Plan	Current Status	Expected Completion Date
POAM-001	OpenSSH Privilege Escalation	High	2025-03-01	2025-03-15	Patch to OpenSSH v9.3	In Progress	2025-03-12
POAM-002	Outdated TLS Version	Critical	2025-02-20	2025-03-06	Upgrade to TLS 1.3	Completed	2025-02-28
Value Addition: This structured approach allows agencies to track risk reduction over time and measure CSP responsiveness to security vulnerabilities.
6.2 Quarterly Vulnerability Scanning Report
Purpose: Demonstrates the effectiveness of CSP vulnerability management through automated scanning results.
Template Format:
Scan Date	System Scanned	# of Critical Findings	# of High Findings	# of Medium Findings	Remediation Rate (%)
2025-03-01	App Server Cluster	5	12	30	85%
2025-03-01	Database Cluster	2	8	25	90%
Value Addition: Agencies can immediately assess a CSP’s ability to detect and remediate vulnerabilities, improving risk-based decision-making.
6.3 Annual Security Control Assessment Report
Purpose: Evaluates adherence to FedRAMP controls, ensuring ongoing security compliance.
Template Format:
Control Family	FedRAMP Control	Assessment Result	Remediation Plan
Access Control	AC-2: Account Management	Pass	N/A
Audit & Accountability	AU-6: Audit Review	Partial	Implement SIEM alerting for critical logs
System & Communications	SC-12: Cryptographic Key Management	Fail	Migrate to FIPS 140-3 compliant HSM
Value Addition: Provides a structured compliance snapshot, highlighting areas of improvement and tracking control maturity.
6.4 Incident Reporting Template (60-Minute Notification & 24-Hour Follow-Up)
Purpose: Ensures timely notification and follow-up reporting for security incidents impacting federal systems.
Template Format:
Initial Incident Notification (Within 60 Minutes)
•	Incident ID: INC-20250315-001
•	Date/Time Detected: 2025-03-15 12:45 UTC
•	Incident Type: Unauthorized Access
•	Affected System(s): GovCloud East – Database Cluster
•	Impact Level: High
•	Initial Mitigation Action: Account Lockdown, SIEM Investigation Initiated
Follow-Up Incident Report (Within 24 Hours)
•	Root Cause Analysis: Compromised credentials due to phishing attack.
•	Resolution Steps:
o	MFA enforcement strengthened.
o	Privileged access review conducted.
•	Lessons Learned: Additional employee phishing awareness training required.
Value Addition: Provides agencies with immediate situational awareness while enabling long-term security improvements.

7. Standardized Reporting Templates
7.1 Plan of Action & Milestones (POAM) Monthly Report
Purpose: Tracks open vulnerabilities, remediation progress, and SLA adherence.
Structured Template
{
  "reporting_period": "2025-03",
  "csp_name": "SecureCloudGov",
  "findings": [
    {
      "poam_id": "POAM-001",
      "vulnerability_name": "OpenSSH Privilege Escalation",
      "severity": "High",
      "identified_date": "2025-03-01",
      "due_date": "2025-03-15",
      "mitigation_plan": "Patch to OpenSSH v9.3",
      "status": "In Progress",
      "expected_completion_date": "2025-03-12"
    },
    {
      "poam_id": "POAM-002",
      "vulnerability_name": "Outdated TLS Version",
      "severity": "Critical",
      "identified_date": "2025-02-20",
      "due_date": "2025-03-06",
      "mitigation_plan": "Upgrade to TLS 1.3",
      "status": "Completed",
      "completion_date": "2025-02-28"
    }
  ]
}
Value Addition: Enables agencies to track risk trends, monitor SLA adherence, and automate compliance checks.
7.2 Quarterly Vulnerability Scanning Report
Purpose: Demonstrates CSP vulnerability management effectiveness.
Structured Template
{
  "scan_date": "2025-03-01",
  "csp_name": "SecureCloudGov",
  "scanned_systems": [
    {
      "system": "App Server Cluster",
      "critical_findings": 5,
      "high_findings": 12,
      "medium_findings": 30,
      "remediation_rate": "85%"
    },
    {
      "system": "Database Cluster",
      "critical_findings": 2,
      "high_findings": 8,
      "medium_findings": 25,
      "remediation_rate": "90%"
    }
  ]
}
Value Addition: Automated API integration ensures agencies receive near-real-time vulnerability insights.
7.3 Annual Security Control Assessment Report
Purpose: Validates adherence to FedRAMP controls.
Structured Template
{
  "assessment_period": "2025",
  "csp_name": "SecureCloudGov",
  "controls": [
    {
      "control_family": "Access Control",
      "control_id": "AC-2",
      "control_name": "Account Management",
      "assessment_result": "Pass",
      "remediation_plan": "N/A"
    },
    {
      "control_family": "System & Communications",
      "control_id": "SC-12",
      "control_name": "Cryptographic Key Management",
      "assessment_result": "Fail",
      "remediation_plan": "Migrate to FIPS 140-3 compliant HSM"
    }
  ]
}
Value Addition: Transforms compliance assessments into an actionable risk intelligence tool.

7.4 Incident Reporting Template (60-Minute Notification & 24-Hour Follow-Up)
Purpose: Ensures immediate and detailed incident transparency.
Structured Template
{
  "incident_id": "INC-20250315-001",
  "date_detected": "2025-03-15T12:45:00Z",
  "incident_type": "Unauthorized Access",
  "affected_systems": ["GovCloud East – Database Cluster"],
  "impact_level": "High",
  "initial_mitigation_action": "Account Lockdown, SIEM Investigation Initiated",
  "follow_up": {
    "root_cause_analysis": "Compromised credentials due to phishing attack.",
    "resolution_steps": [
      "MFA enforcement strengthened",
      "Privileged access review conducted"
    ],
    "lessons_learned": "Additional employee phishing awareness training required."
  }
}
Value Addition: Automates threat intelligence sharing, accelerating agency response times.
7.5 API Schema for Automated Report Ingestion
Purpose: Enables seamless integration of CSP reports with agency SIEM, CDM, and FedRAMP dashboards.
API Endpoint: /api/v1/conmon-reports
Method: POST
Content-Type: application/json
API Request Schema
{
  "report_type": "poam",
  "reporting_period": "2025-03",
  "csp_name": "SecureCloudGov",
  "data": {
    "poam_id": "POAM-001",
    "vulnerability_name": "OpenSSH Privilege Escalation",
    "severity": "High",
    "identified_date": "2025-03-01",
    "due_date": "2025-03-15",
    "mitigation_plan": "Patch to OpenSSH v9.3",
    "status": "In Progress",
    "expected_completion_date": "2025-03-12"
  }
}
Value Addition:
•	Automates report submissions, eliminating manual uploads.
•	Enhances security intelligence sharing for real-time risk validation.
8. Compliance Checklists for FedRAMP Rev 5 and Rev 4 CSPs
8.1 FedRAMP Rev 5 Compliance Checklist
Authentication & Access Control
•	Multi-factor authentication (MFA) enabled for all privileged accounts.
•	Just-in-time (JIT) privileged access implemented.
Encryption & Data Protection
•	All data encrypted at rest using FIPS 140-3 validated cryptographic modules.
•	TLS 1.3 enforced for all external connections.
Threat Monitoring & Incident Response
•	SIEM solutions ingest logs from all critical systems.
•	Incident response plan tested bi-annually.
Value Addition: Ensures CSPs align with the latest FedRAMP security expectations while reducing audit overhead.
8.2 FedRAMP Rev 4 to Rev 5 Transition Checklist
Gap Analysis & Documentation
•	Conducted gap analysis of Rev 4 vs. Rev 5 controls.
•	Submitted transition plan to FedRAMP PMO.
Security Enhancements
•	Integrated Continuous Authorization to Operate (cATO) methodology.
•	Automated vulnerability scanning and reporting workflows.
Regulatory Compliance
•	Mapped security controls to NIST 800-53 Rev 5.
•	Updated System Security Plan (SSP) with new control implementations.
Value Addition: Helps CSPs navigate a structured and transparent migration to FedRAMP Rev 5 while minimizing compliance risk.
9. Key Value Additions of Enhanced ConMon Reporting
This standard introduces automation, standardization, and real-time risk intelligence to empower agencies with actionable insights:
•	Proactive Risk Management – Enables security teams to validate CSP risk postures instantly, reducing exposure to emerging threats. 
•	Automated Compliance Audits – Structured JSON/XML report formats ensure seamless integration with SIEMs and CDM dashboards.
•	Accelerated FedRAMP Rev 5 Adoption – Provides CSPs on Rev 4 a clear migration roadmap, bridging compliance gaps efficiently.
•	Enhanced Regulatory Alignment – Aligns with NIST 800-53 Rev 5, Zero Trust Architecture (ZTA), and Continuous Diagnostics and Mitigation (CDM) for seamless compliance.
10. Conclusion
By standardizing structured reporting, automation, and API-driven integrations, this framework elevates ConMon from a compliance exercise to a real-time security intelligence capability. Agency security professionals gain instant visibility into CSP risk postures, enabling proactive and risk-based decision-making.

